All right, hope you are having fun
with these generators.
I'm going pretty much
in depth of the generator,
leaving no stone unturned.
That's why little more number
of videos but hey, you're getting
more knowledge for that.
Hope you'll rate this as well.
Let me take you onto
the screen and show you
something more interesting.
Now so far what we have seen is
the classic use of the yield
statement and there is
nothing wrong, this is how
majorly it is being used.
But there is also a different
use case of this yield.
You will not see them mostly
in the tutorials or the courses
which are made just on the surface
level or probably like that.
But I'll show you how this can be
used in the production and you will
see, you will unlock a really new
way of looking at the yield and also
interacting with the yield.
So so far we have seen that
actually whenever you call this.
So let's just say this is the person
who is calling the yield.
Yield actually generates the data
or gives the data when
what if this person wants
to send some data to the yield?
Yeah, that's also possible.
That can be possible and that
is used quite a lot but rarely
anybody discuss about this.
So this time we'll just go
ahead and say send data.
So we'll just go ahead and send
the data to this one.
Again this is too zoomed
in but you get the idea.
We want to send the data.
All right, let's go to the code
part and that's fairly easy,
not that easy but comparatively
to the comprehensions fairly easy.
So let's just call this1 as 03
and send generators py of course,
let's create a fresh new method
and call this one as Chai customer.
So somebody is asking us
for a chai and this time
here's the interesting part.
First of all we're going to print
up a message which says welcome.
First of all, welcome with
an exclamation and we will ask what
chai would you, would you like?
Just like that.
Now what we're expecting is somebody
will give me a chai order and from
where this is going to come.
Yes.
Yeah, this is very strange.
So far we have used it
like a return statement.
We but can I actually store the value
of the yield in a variable?
Yes, you can.
This is Python world.
You can store anything
in the variable.
Now apart from this, we are going
to go ahead and run a loop
as well while true and we will say
print formatted string
which says preparing
and you are preparing an order.
So we are printing this.
Not only that, we again are going to
go ahead and say order equals yield.
Why we are doing it again?
Why you want to have a yield again?
We just took the order above.
That is great.
But this is the order
that you took this time.
And right now this is
preparing that order.
But what if the new order comes up?
That's also interesting case.
Let me walk you through what happens.
Because assuming things is not
a good idea in programming.
Let's just go ahead and execute them.
Let's just say again,
we have a tea stall.
And in this we call
this Chai customer.
There we go.
This right now is storing
the reference of the Chai customer.
Not doing anything at all.
In order to run this, I have to call
the next method and say this stall.
So this is interesting.
This is actually a point where you
are having a start the generator.
This is a starting point
of the generator.
Now after this I can just go
ahead and say stall dot send.
Once I go ahead and send this,
then for the first time
I'm sending masala Shai.
Let's run this program as it is.
What's happening in this case?
We'll add more code to this.
But right now I just want
to execute it as it is.
So once I do this notice
here, it says, welcome.
What chai would you like to have?
And it's preparing a masala chai.
Okay, it's preparing a masala chai.
The order that you are yielding
right now is this one.
So you have started this.
This one.
But what if somebody
gives me another one?
All right, let's go ahead and see.
This one is lemon chai.
All right, let's run this
and I'll show you exactly.
Notice here, it says masala
chai and lemon chai.
So it's preparing nicely.
But what if I don't
write this order yield.
Interesting question.
Let's go ahead and remove this.
Let's run this.
What happens in this case.
And we can see.
Oh, goodness.
This is continuously just running.
I'll kill this before it actually,
kills my memory.
But you can see now we are just
constantly going with
the memory, memory, all of that.
Because the point is this is
a while true loop and this is
constantly just keep on going with,
the infinite amount of loops.
Now we need to analyze this to truly
understand what just happened here.
Because this is a very interesting
case study altogether.
Let's close this and let's
bring it back so that we can
actually understand this.
And oops.
Oh, my bad.
All Right.
So notice here what is
happening in this program.
We define a simple program.
We simply print the message
and this is line number three
where we wait for the order.
So this order value is not going
to get filled if you just
run the function like this
next, all because you haven't
passed on any value.
This function is expecting
that something will be given
to me via the yield.
And since nothing is being given
to you, you simply go ahead and say,
okay, nothing is being given.
I will pause here.
So technically you never
reach line number three.
You are always at line number two.
So when I simply said stall chai
customer, this is just a reference.
And when I said next stall,
this starts my function and runs
this print line here, but actually
does nothing outside of this.
And to show you the proof
of this, I'll just comment this
and we'll run this program again.
And there we go.
So notice here it prints
what chai would you like?
But now it's waiting that, hey, give
me some value so that I can
actually store that into the order.
The moment you go ahead and first
time you send the value using send,
this send method directly
interacts to your generator.
And this is where the yield
value comes into the picture.
So yield, value comes up here.
So we have paused
the program in between.
And after that, this, while
true, this will always execute.
Then we are printing that.
Okay, you are preparing a,
order and then here also we are
pausing this program again.
If this doesn't exist, there is
no way of stopping this program.
This is always keep on running.
So this is the point
at line number six where you
stop the program again.
So when I run this program again,
then the program again comes
to the life and says, all right,
the order value is yield.
So your order gets a value
and then it again goes back.
Okay, so this is true.
So I'll just print that value again
and I will wait that
you pass me another value.
So the program then after that
keeps on going with the values
that you have, passed on.
It's a very interesting case study
of how the values are gone.
And I know this is a aha moment.
All right, so we are always stuck
in the while loop in the memory.
And this is the reason why
this program is getting
stopped in running into
the infinite generators.
And that is the reason I just
talked about the infinite generator
in the last video,
because the infinite generators
are used less this one here.
But this is the implementation
which is used quite a lot,
especially in the frameworks.
So I hope this gives you more idea
of why this is happening,
how this is happening, and each
line is broken down to you.
This was fun.
All right, for this video,
let's catch up in the next one.